Tutorial for redacting information before they reach PostHog (#11656)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/tutorials/web-redact-properties.md

Reviewer: I think the tricky thing about a tutorial like this is that it can rapidly expand beyond the original scope. We have multiple other ways to redact or not send information like:

- Session replay: https://posthog.com/docs/session-replay/privacy
- Autocapture: https://posthog.com/docs/product-analytics/autocapture#configuring-autocapture
- LLM observability: https://posthog.com/docs/ai-engineering/observability#privacy-mode

Author: Yeah this is a good point I think. I'm gonna reduce the scope a bit more.

I'm feeling ambitious and wanting to pick up https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/issues/10644 for general privacy documentation eventually. Some of the expanded context here might be better saved for that task. 

It's just that I feel like someone needs to know _all_ or _most_ of all of this information to succeed, and there isn't quite a single place for all of this. Something for me to think about

---

> title: How to redact sensitive information before they're sent to PostHog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: How to redact event data before it is sent to PostHog
```

date: 2025-05-29
showTitle: true
author:
  - vincent-ge
tags:
  - configuration
  - data management
  - product os
---

> When collecting data to better understand your customers, it's important to comply with [privacy regulations](https://posthog.com/docs/privacy). 

Reviewer: Relative links pls :) (all these need to be updated)
```suggestion
When collecting data to better understand your customers, it's important to comply with [privacy regulations](/docs/privacy). 
```

> Sometimes, this means certain information should **never** make it to PostHog servers. This tutorial shows you how to hide or redact information on the [PostHog JavaScript Web SDK](https://posthog.com/docs/libraries/js), before they're sent to PostHog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, this means certain information should **never** make it to PostHog servers. This tutorial shows you how to hide or redact information on the [PostHog JavaScript Web SDK](https://posthog.com/docs/libraries/js), before it's sent to PostHog.
```

> ## Redacting information with the Web SDK

Reviewer: One newline after headings just for internal readability
```suggestion
## Redacting information with the Web SDK

```

You can selectively remove properties from events before they're sent by initializing PostHog with a [`before_send`](https://posthog.com/docs/libraries/js/features#redacting-information-in-events) hook. PostHog will pass the event object to the `before_send` function, where you can redact any information.

> For example, you can create a `beforeSend.js` file and define your redaction logic there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can create a `beforeSend.js` file and define your redaction logic there like this:
```

// Match property names against the defined list
function filterProperties(value) {
  return Object.entries(value).reduce((acc, [key, value]) => {
    if (redactedProperties.some(prop => key.includes(prop))) {
      acc[key] = null;
    } else {
      acc[key] = value;
    }
    return acc;
  }, {});
}

// Export the before send function
export const beforeSend = (event) => {
  if (!event) {
    return null;
  }

  const redactedProperties = filterProperties(event.properties || {});
  event.properties = redactedProperties;

  // $set
  const redactedSet = filterProperties(event.$set || {});
  event.$set = redactedSet;

  // $set_once
  const redactedSetOnce = filterProperties(event.$set_once || {});
  event.$set_once = redactedSetOnce;

  return event;
};
```

Then, you can initialize PostHog with your `before_send` function.
```js
import { beforeSend } from './beforeSend'

posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {
  api_host: '<ph_client_api_host>',  // usually 'https://us.i.posthog.com' or 'https://eu.i.posthog.com'
  capture_pageview: 'history_change',
  before_send: beforeSend
})
```

## Hiding customer IP address

> PostHog will use the client IP address found during an event capture request if an `$ip` isn't passed through `event.properties`. To hide your customer's IP address, you can override the `$ip` property with a sample address like `192.0.2.0`.

Reviewer: We could recommend using this: https://us.posthog.com/project/2/settings/environment#datacapture

> PostHog will use the client IP address found during an event capture request if an `$ip` isn't passed through `event.properties`. To hide your customer's IP address, you can override the `$ip` property with a sample address like `192.0.2.0`.

Reviewer: Could you also try testing this initialization:

```
posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {
  api_host: '<ph_client_api_host>',  // usually 'https://us.i.posthog.com/' or 'https://eu.i.posthog.com/'
  capture_pageview: 'history_change',
  ip: false
})
```

Seems there is an undocumented config option we could use: https://github.com/PostHog/posthog-js/blob/f4cde2e9dd66c1aaab2be32ceba387885e723060/src/posthog-core.ts#L164

> PostHog will use the client IP address found during an event capture request if an `$ip` isn't passed through `event.properties`. To hide your customer's IP address, you can override the `$ip` property with a sample address like `192.0.2.0`.

Author: Oh wow I didn't know about this at all. I am also gonna add this to relevant bits of documentation, I don't see this anywhere. Thanks :D

> PostHog will use the client IP address found during an event capture request if an `$ip` isn't passed through `event.properties`. To hide your customer's IP address, you can override the `$ip` property with a sample address like `192.0.2.0`.

Author: @ivanagas I'm fairly certain `  ip: false` is ignored. Seems this way from testing + code search.

 I'll bring it up and confirm, though

```js file=beforeSend.js
export const beforeSend = (event) => {
  if (!event) {
    return null;
  }

  event.properties['$ip'] = '';

  return event;
};
```

> If you require your customers' IP addresses to be completely obfuscated from PostHog servers, consider [hosting a reverse proxy](/docs/advanced/proxy#deploying-a-reverse-proxy).

Reviewer: I don't think this is a good suggestion, it will still require them to set up the code to drop the IP address from the event. Toggling IP capture in settings is probably better: [us.posthog.com/project/2/settings/environment#datacapture](https://us.posthog.com/project/2/settings/environment#datacapture)

Author: I think this is definitely better. 

I saw a thread where someone wanted IPs to never reach PostHog servers 🤷‍♂️ I _think_ no process/storage does the same. I think maybe that's an edge case and we should give the relevant suggestion case per case.

> ## Opting out of automatic collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Opting out of automatic collection

```

If you want more control over what events are captured, you can opt out of automatic collection completely. You can do this at two different levels:
1. Per-user opt out
2. Opt out for all users

> ### Per-user opt out

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Per-user opt out

```

> Start by opting out each user by default when you initialize PostHog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by opting out each user by default when you initialize PostHog.

```

```js

> posthog.init('phc_5xbNHn6pKYcPD2qpmtoJIET2qhoNLObyPsrO8evJQ7w', {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {
```

    opt_out_capturing_by_default: true,
});
```

> Then, you can prompt users to opt in or opt out:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, you can prompt users to opt in or opt out:

```

```js
// opt out
posthog.opt_out_capturing()
// opt in
posthog.opt_in_capturing()
```

> 

Reviewer: You can also change the config using `set_config` which is very useful for cookie banners, like we show here: https://posthog.com/tutorials/nextjs-cookie-banner#controlling-posthog-persistence-based-on-consent

Before capturing events manually, you can check if the user has opted out like this:

```js
posthog.has_opted_out_capturing()
```

> ### Opt out for all users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Opt out for all users

```

> To opt out of automatic collection entirely, you can navigate to your PostHog dashboard > **Settings** > **Project** > [**Autocapture & heatmaps**](https://us.posthog.com/settings/project-autocapture#autocapture) and toggle to disable different types of auto-capturing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To opt out of automatic collection entirely, you can navigate to your PostHog dashboard > **Settings** > **Project** > [**Autocapture & heatmaps**](https://us.posthog.com/settings/project-autocapture#autocapture) and toggle to disable different types of autocapturing. 
```

> ## More privacy controls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## More privacy controls

```

PostHog offers a wide range of controls to limit data collection at different levels.

> You can use [the Property Filter transformation](/tutorials/property-filter) to filter out captured event properties **before ingestion**. This means the full events will still reach PostHog, but the filtered properties will not be stored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use [the property filter transformation](/tutorials/property-filter) to filter out captured event properties **before ingestion**. This means the full events will still reach PostHog, but the filtered properties will not be stored
```

> You can also disable capturing for specific UI elements for [Product analytics](https://posthog.com/docs/product-analytics/privacy) and [Session replay](https://posthog.com/docs/session-replay/privacy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also disable capturing for specific UI elements for [product analytics](https://posthog.com/docs/product-analytics/privacy) and [session replay](https://posthog.com/docs/session-replay/privacy).
```
